Please open your Bibles to Philippians chapter 4.
If you are using an electronic device, I invite you to do this by means of the JW Library app.
Sometimes in our public ministry, we have an opportunity to show people the difference between the King James version and the New World translation.
If you tap the 6 on your iPad at Philippians 4.6, you'll notice that the King James renders this verse,
and be careful for nothing, which sounds like an exhortation to worry needlessly,
exactly the opposite of what Philippians 4.6 and 7 is encouraging us to do.
Namely, do not be anxious over anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication,
along with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers by means of Christ, Jesus.
Now, I invite you to use the bookmark feature of your JW Library as we'll return here.
But now regarding the comments in our text today that have to do with stumbling, how is it?
There are some sorts of understanding that are surpassed by the peace of God.
Sometimes when a person is mistreated, he thinks, and rightly so, that this sort of thing ought not to happen in Jehovah's organization.
How might the peace of God surpass that understanding?
One way is that Jehovah reminds us, through his word, that sometimes things happen in Jehovah's organization that ought not to happen.
But turn please to 1 Samuel chapter 24 and verse 2.
Here, young David was enduring persecution from Saul who had lost Jehovah's favor and who was jealous of David.
Notice what happens here in verse 2 for Samuel 24.2.
So Saul took 3,000 men chosen from all Israel and went to look for David and his men on the rocky cliffs of the mountain goats.
Imagine that.
King of Israel using Israel's army which was supported by dedicated funds to go after a personal enemy, an enemy of his who actually had Jehovah's favor.
That was wrong on so many levels and it continued for years.
But the point is what was David's response to that? Was he bitter?
Did he say, you know, there's no use even trying under circumstances like this? Well, no.
On the contrary, he remained respectful of Saul's position as God's anointed one, refusing to attack even when he had many opportunities to do so.
In fact, notice his actions in verse 8.
Then David got up and went out from the cave and called out after Saul, my Lord the King, when Saul looked behind him, David bowed down low with his face to the ground and prostrated himself.
David refused to allow bitterness to poison his heart or to compromise his integrity.
But today we're living in a time when Jehovah's people as a whole can never be corrupted.
So how is it that this brother who disappointed me can maintain a good standing?
That is a form of understanding.
How does the peace of God surpass that understanding?
Well, one way is that it brings back to our minds the Christian Greek scriptures are full of counsel directed to us to help us put up with those who have given us a legitimate cause for complaint.
So we shouldn't be surprised if occasionally one of our brothers or sisters is lacking in some Christian quality.
Is it possible that applying the words of Philippians chapter 4 and verse 8 will help us?
A lot has to do with the way we direct our thoughts. If you have enabled your electronic bookmark, you can just tap it and go back to Philippians chapter 4.
And while you're tapping tap the 8 for the kingdom interlinear rendering, the main text of Philippians for 8 reads,
finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are of serious concern, whatever things are righteous, whatever things are chased, whatever things are lovable,
continue considering these things. But notice that the kingdom interlinear instead of lovable uses the expression affection inducing.
Jehovah wants us to consider what is good in people to focus on that which induces our affection for them rather than our resentment.
And in the article finding the key to brotherly affection in the October 15, 1993 issue of the watchtower, the watchtower boiled the whole process down to one word.
Appreciation. Appreciation is the key to brotherly affection. Yes, I'm hurt.
However, is there something, anything that I, that God or others, sees in this brother and appreciates? Can I see it? Is he seeking first the kingdom?
He didn't have to make himself available to Jehovah to serve here at Bethel, but he has, is he putting up a good fight against our three common enemies, Satan the devil, the flesh, the world?
Despite where he has come from in life and what he is presently going through, is he not really doing his best, continue considering the affection inducing things?
Moreover, notice what it says right here in Philippians chapter 4 and verse 13.
For all things, I have the strength through the one who gives me power.
Now, true, when an offense is a major sin, it's understandable that we would take steps to initiate the appropriate congregation action, but we should always remember that Jehovah gives us the strength we need to serve him even under difficult circumstances.
There's never a reason to stop serving Jehovah. We should always be ready to ask Jehovah for his help, particularly if it seems that something is going to interfere with our feelings for him and our stand for his kingdom.
Always ready to ask Jehovah for help. Indeed, we should be careful for nothing, not in the sense of worrying needlessly, but in the sense of our days text that we keep on asking Jehovah, not being anxious over anything, but letting our petitions be made known to God with the confidence that he will supply us the strength that we need to remain firm and do his will.